hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the surface pro
4 now this isn't going to be one of my
regular views just because one of the
more common questions I get is what
laptop should I get as a university
student or a college student and I've
always thought that the surface pro
lineup was a really good device for
college kids obviously it's not going to
fit every single college student but the
surface pro 3 in particular was really
solid and it came up before I started
making YouTube videos so I wasn't able
to do a video for that one so I thought
I should do one for the surface pro 4
that was geared towards college kids
alright let's do it the surface pro 4
comes in a slide-out tray again and
inside you get the surface tablet itself
the new surface pen some pamphlets and
the AC adapter now just to get it out of
the way the surface pro 4 isn't a budget
device it's not horribly expensive and I
think they do a decent job on delivering
value but it's not cheap the unit here
is a core i5 with 4 gigs of RAM 128 gigs
of storage and it will run you $1000 but
with a type cover which I would consider
necessary for college students it's an
extra $130 the surface pro 4 is made
with a magnesium casing it's super
durable and it has a uniquely different
texture from aluminum when you're
holding it so we have an 8 megapixel
camera up top that takes decent pictures
if you're into taking photos with
tablets and a kickstand down at the
bottom with the reflective windows logo
up front we have two speakers they don't
sound amazing but it's a tablet and at
the very least it gets loud enough for a
media consumption and we also have a 5
megapixel front facing camera it takes
decent photos and videos and we can use
it to unlock the device with Microsoft
hello and that works really well the
screen is a 12-point 3-inch pixel sense
panel running at a really high
resolution of 27 36 by 1824 it's a way
better screen than the screen on the
surface pro 3 it's bright viewing angles
are good and the colors are pretty
accurate it still has that classic
surface 3 by 2 ratio which I think works
well for a two-in-one device like this
so it's great for things like browsing
drawing and taking notes but it's less
great for watching videos because of
that letterboxing now going around the
sides on the left of the device we have
a headphone jack and on the top we have
a volume rocker and the power button on
the right we have the power connection a
USB 3 port and a mini DisplayPort and on
the bottom we have a 6 pin connector
that connects the surface tablet to the
surface type cover using magnets they
join up pretty easily and when you do it
acts like a little cover for the tablet
and it's obviously a keyboard when you
open it up the magnets are pretty strong
strong enough that you can kind of do
this actually nevermind don't do this
when you open up the keyboard it's
noticeably better than the keyboard from
the surface pro 3 the base of the
keyboard is more rigid than before so if
you have to use it on your lap doesn't
flex as much and the keys have good
travel it feels better to type on than
last year and honestly it's just a
really solid P board typing on it feels
just like a regular laptop it has pretty
good backlighting it's like 5 or 6
stages which is even more than the
surface book the kickstand has the same
mechanism as last year and it works
reasonably well like you can adjust it
to any angle that you want and I find
that it works a lot better for typing on
your lap than the kickstand with the set
positions on the surface 3 so if you
didn't like that kickstand you still
might like this one the trackpad is also
a lot better it's bigger than last year
and it's actually good like it's got a
good texture it tracks well and the
clicking on the trackpad buttons feel
OnPoint you don't need to bring a master
class anymore it's like the real deal
now something to note if you have a
surface pro 3 you can buy this new type
cover and then give your older device a
brand new keyboard you'll type better
you'll trackpad better you'll love it
the surface pro 4 with the type cover
comes in at less than 2 and a half
pounds it's really easy to carry to
class and around campus and even if you
need to bring the AC adapter the whole
setups still pretty light now when
you're taking notes in class you can
either type using the keyboard or you
can use the pen now type it on a desk or
a solid surface is great but if you have
to use your lap it's a bit of a
compromise because you're still using
the kicks in right it's still not a
perfect keyboard for lap use but it's
comfortable enough to use everyday
the surface pen this year is also
improved it was pretty good on the
surface pro 3 but this year the nib at
the top of the pen is softer and it's a
little more enjoyable to write with it
still doesn't feel like real paper
Holle market it like that and it still
has a little bit of input like but it's
a very usable pen for taking notes in
class you can also click the back where
you click it once to open OneNote click
it twice for a screenshot and you hold
it down to launch Cortana for voice
control so for a student the single
click to launch OneNote is really nice
it just gets you into a note-taking mode
really quickly so if you're late for
class and you're scrambling to jot
something down it's a really nice
feature the other thing that's pretty
awesome for students is the new eraser
on the surface pen now you might think
the eraser is a really minor detail and
it kind of is but it's something that a
lot of people use regularly and erasing
a mistake on a handwritten note becomes
that much more natural and that's the
best part because if you're new to using
a digital pen for note taking when you
make a mistake it's pretty natural to
flip it over and try racing it with the
other end because that's just how
pencils work so yeah it's a small
feature but it's something that students
will really appreciate it just makes the
whole learning curve a little less steep
and it just feels more natural the pen
attaches magnetically this year instead
of using a loop like last year it looks
nicer this way but when you keep it in
your bag it'll probably fall off if you
have other stuff in there the last thing
I really like about the surface pro 4
for class is snap multitasking so if
you're in a class when you need to refer
to something while taking notes like a
course syllabus or a diagram or
something it's really simple to set it
up now battery life when you're running
light stuff like OneNote or WordPad is
pretty mediocre microsoft claims up to
nine hours but i'm getting around five
hours with screen at seventy five
percent brightness it's not horrible but
it's not good enough to like just leave
the charger at home if you have a full
day at school and this was tested with
the threshold to update it was closer to
four hours before the update okay so
this video features the surface pro 4
with a Core i5 processor and four gigs
of RAM I chose this one in particularly
because I feel like it gives you the
best value for a college student there's
another version that's $300 more that's
eight gigs of RAM and 256 storage so
double the storage but I feel like that
$300 price difference I mean it's
obviously a better machine but you're
not going to notice that much of a
difference for what the average college
student does I'll be able to test both
of them extensively the four gig and the
88 version and unless you're doing video
edits you're not going to notice much of
a difference
but if you are doing video editing even
if it's 1080p video editing I would
totally go with the a keg version
because when you're editing videos with
the four gig version things get a little
bit gnarly it's just a little bit choppy
and a little less smooth than I'd like
it to be for even 1080p video edits
driver speeds are okay it's got kind of
slow write speeds but read speeds are
fast so it's very usable for any kind of
media consumption okay let's talk about
gaming lightweight games are run okay I
had some screen flickering when I filmed
this footage in October but it was fixed
in early November with an update on high
settings csgo runs around 40 frames per
second and on high settings heroes of
the storm in dota 2 both run around 20
to 30 frames per second the bottom line
is this if you're a casual gamer you can
easily get by with the surface pro for
running a core i5 and just four gigs of
ram if you play MOBAs and you need
decent frame rates like 50 60 frames per
second you can still do it with the core
i5 and 4 gigs of ram they'll just have
to lower your settings and play on lower
resolutions like he won't be MLG pro
status but you can do it if you want to
play triple-a 3d titles like GTA 5 or
fallout 4 I would definitely look at a
different device it's not going to run
well on the surface pro 4 battery life
is around 2 hours when I was playing
games with screen on max brightness and
around 5 hours when I was watching
videos from the drive again with screen
at max brightness so like I mentioned
before videos get some pretty strong
letterboxing on a screen with a 3x2
aspect ratio now personally I don't mind
it but I know some people really care
about this kind of stuff for media
consumption so keep that in mind there's
a microSD slot underneath the kickstand
and it lets you store a pretty good
amount of content offline when the
surface pro 4 is idling it's silent but
when you put it under a bit of load the
fans kick in it's not too loud and
temperatures stay around 100 degrees so
it's not too bad ok let's do a quick
recap surface pro 4 it has a fantastic
12 point 3 inch touch screen the aspect
ratio is great for work and browsing not
so great for videos it's got stereo
speakers that don't sound great but they
are front-facing and they get pretty
loud it's got a Core i5 running at 2.4
gigahertz with 4 gigs of RAM and
integrated graphics which is sufficient
for most things students would do but if
you want to be hardcore you got
it has a 38 watt hour battery that gives
a pretty lame battery life like you can
watch a full movie on it but it won't
last a full day on campus it has a
detachable type cover with a fantastic
keyboard really great digital pen for
note taking and an equally awesome
trackpad alright so there's clearly a
lot of stuff to like about the surface
pro 4 it's a very capable and portable
two in one device but two things kind of
bug me first is that keyboard it's such
an integral part of the surface pro
experience it kind of bugs me that it's
still being sold separately and it bugs
me that it's as expensive of an
accessory as it is the second thing is
the battery life the threshold to update
bumped up a little bit it's still not
great so if you have a full day of class
you're forced to bring your battery
charger with you and that's a bit of a
bummer but aside from that it's a really
great device and this year that it's
been upgraded all around it's like a
faster and better experience and it fits
into like college life that much better
that's the end of this review hope you
guys liked it thumbs if you did subs if
you loved it it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time